For a fresher's Git interview, you'll be expected to have a good understanding of the basic Git concepts and commands, as Git is a fundamental tool for version control in most development environments. Below are the basic Git topics that are essential for a fresher interview:
1. Introduction to Git

    What is Git? (Distributed version control system)
    Difference between Git and SVN (Centralized version control system)
    Why Git is widely used in modern software development
    Git workflows (centralized workflow, feature branching, forking workflow, etc.)

2. Git Setup

    Setting up Git: git config --global user.name "Your Name", git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
    Configuring Git on your local machine (global/local configurations)
    Setting up a Git repository: git init

3. Basic Git Commands

    git init: Initialize a new Git repository
    git clone: Clone an existing repository from a remote server
    git status: Check the status of files in your repository (tracked, modified, staged, etc.)
    git add: Add files to the staging area (e.g., git add <file-name>, git add .)
    git commit: Commit changes to the local repository (e.g., git commit -m "Message")
    git log: View the commit history
    git diff: View the differences between changes made to files

4. Git Branching

    Branches in Git: Creating branches for features, bug fixes, etc.
    git branch: List branches (git branch), create branches (git branch <branch-name>), and delete branches (git branch -d <branch-name>)
    git checkout: Switch branches (git checkout <branch-name>)
    git switch: A newer alternative to git checkout for switching branches (git switch <branch-name>)
    git merge: Merging changes from one branch into another (e.g., merging a feature branch into main or master)

5. Remote Repositories

    What is a remote repository?
    git remote: List and manage remotes (e.g., git remote -v, git remote add <name> <url>)
    git push: Push local commits to a remote repository (e.g., git push origin <branch-name>)
    git pull: Fetch and merge changes from the remote repository into your local branch (e.g., git pull origin <branch-name>)
    git fetch: Fetch changes from the remote without merging them

6. Git Collaboration

    Forking and Pull Requests: Common in open-source development, forking a repo and creating pull requests
    git merge vs. git rebase: Understanding the difference between merging and rebasing branches
        Merge creates a new commit with the merged changes.
        Rebase applies your changes on top of another branch, creating a linear history.
    Resolving merge conflicts: Using git mergetool or manually resolving conflicts

7. Undoing Changes

    git reset: Undo changes in your local repository (e.g., git reset --hard, git reset <file-name>)
    git checkout -- <file-name>: Discard changes to a file (restores the file to the last committed version)
    git revert: Create a new commit that undoes the changes of a previous commit
    git stash: Temporarily save changes without committing them (e.g., git stash, git stash pop)

8. Git History and Inspection

    git log: View commit history with details (git log --oneline for a simplified view)
    git show: Show details about a specific commit
    git diff: View changes between commits, branches, or your working directory and the last commit

9. Git Configuration and Personalization

    Setting global ignore files: .gitignore file for ignoring specific files/folders (e.g., build files, log files)
    Understanding global .gitconfig file for user-specific configuration

10. Working with Tags

    git tag: Tagging important points in history (e.g., git tag <tag-name> <commit-hash>)
    git push --tags: Push tags to a remote repository

11. Basic Troubleshooting

    git status and git diff to troubleshoot uncommitted changes
    Checking the commit history to investigate any issues (git log)
    Fixing common errors in Git such as merge conflicts

12. Git Workflow Basics

    Gitflow Workflow: Common branching strategy (feature branches, release branches, hotfix branches)
    GitHub Flow: Simple, lightweight workflow using the main branch and feature branches

13. Common Git Errors and Solutions

    Detached HEAD: What it means and how to fix it
    Merge conflicts: How to identify and resolve them
    Untracked files: How to deal with untracked files and unwanted changes

14. Using Git with GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket

    How to create a repository on GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket and push local repositories
    Forking a repo, creating branches, and submitting pull requests (common for open-source contributions)

